Why my brain works differently,
what you don't see behind my behavior,
when you see my behavior,
it might look like I'm overreacting.
Like I go from calm to angry too quickly.
Or I shut down for no clear reason.
But what you may not realize is my brain has been shaped by what I've been through.
It didn't develop in the same way you might expect.
When I was younger,
things weren't always safe.
There was stress,
sometimes a lot of it.
And not always someone there to help me feel calm or make sense of things.
So my brain adapted.
It had to
It focused on survival instead of feeling safe.
There's a part of my brain that looks out for danger.
Mine works really well.
May be too well
It notices small things,
changes in tone,
body language,
the atmosphere in a room.
Things that might not seem important to you,
but to me,
they feel important.
Because
my brain has learned that small changes can mean something bigger is coming.
So I stay ready
Even when I don't mean to.
And when something shifts,
my body reacts before I can think.
I don't get time to pause and work it out.
I might get angry
Really quickly
Or I might walk away before things get worse.
Or sometimes
I just go quiet and switch off.
That's not me choosing to be difficult.
That's my body trying to protect me.
The thinking part of my brain,
the bit that helps me make sense of things,
it doesn't always get a chance to catch up.
Especially when everything inside me feels too much.
So when you ask me to explain myself
or tell me to calm down.
I might not be able to.
Not in that moment.
It's like everything is happening too fast.
What you see as behavior is often me trying
to cope with something I don't fully understand myself.
And it's not just in those big moments.
It's all the time
My brain stays busy.
Listening
Watching
Checking
Even when nothing's wrong.
That makes things harder for me.
Focusing on tasks.
Remembering things.
Trusting people
Sometimes I want to get things right,
but I feel overwhelmed before I even start.
And that can look like I'm not trying.
But I am
It just doesn't feel easy.
Please understand that.
Because
when I feel rushed or told off,
or like I've got it wrong again.
It adds to everything that's already going on inside.
It makes my brain feel even less safe.
And then I react again.
But when you stay calm,
even when I'm not,
When your voice doesn't change,
when you don't come too close too quickly,
when you give me a bit of space.
Something feels different.
I don't always show it.
But I notice
My body starts to slow down just a bit.
That's when I can start to think again.
That's when the thinking part of my brain begins to come back.
And I can listen
and maybe even talk.
What I need from you is time.
Consistency
Not guessing what version of you I'm going to get.
I need you to mean what you say and stay the same,
even when I'm not.
Because behind my behavior
is a brain that learned to survive before it learned to feel safe.
And when you respond in a way that helps me feel safe,
you're helping me do something I'm still learning how to do.
You're helping me feel
Not just react